[SWOOSHING SOUND]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[PIANO MUSIC PLAYING]
>> My entire life just
came crashing down.
I had lost my home
due to foreclosure.
I was six figures in debt.
My boyfriend was an alcoholic.
That relationship broke up.
And I had a very
serious blood clot close
to my heart and lungs.
And so I had to go into
emergency treatment for that.
As everything was just crashing
down, I just fell to my knees.
I just didn't know how I
was going to get through it.
I really hit rock bottom.
I was lying in my bed and
just crying, crying, crying,
crying all by myself,
rolled up in a ball.
The story that I kept on telling
myself is, how did this happen?
How am I going to
get out of this?
What am I going to do?
I felt really helpless.
And for a really brief moment,
I wanted to end it all.
I just wanted the pain to stop.
I didn't know how to
make that pain stop.
And so what I
allowed myself to do
is I just allowed myself
to just cry it all out.
And after crying,
I got out of bed.
I walked around the
bed to the window.
And I was looking outside
the window when I said,
I don't know why
this is happening.
But one thing I know for
sure, something big, something
huge something
way bigger than me
is going to come out of this.
Because I'm not going through
all this stuff for nothing.
It was like a declaration.
It was an intention I
sent out to the universe.
>> You're going to go through
challenges in life one way
or another.
In the hero's journey, we
would call this the initiation.
The hero's journey is
this famous narrative that
really applies to all of us.
And there are three main
parts of the hero's journey.
There's a separation, an
initiation, and a return.
And the beautiful thing
about the hero's journey
is it's cyclical.
It's something that
happens on macro cycles
and it happens on micro cycles.
And it's not, at one point,
we've just reached it
and we're done and we finished.
It's something that we're
always moving through.
And so here are a
couple interesting parts
of the hero's journey that I
feel that we as individuals can
relate to being somewhere
on the journey at any given
point in our lives.
The first thing that
happens is we're
on a path, a path that maybe
someone else decided was
ours to take, parents,
society, school.
And we realized we're meant
to be on a different path.
And so when we first realized
we were meant to be on a path,
this is what Joseph
Campbell would
call the CTA, the Call To
Action or the Call To Adventure.
He would say, that
the phone is ringing.
And what's fascinating about
this part of the hero's journey
is most people don't pick
up the phone right away.
This is where it actually
gets a little bit sad,
because some people will wait an
entire lifetime not picking up
their phone.
They'll hear the phone ringing
but they won't pick it up.
And those are the people that
are on their deathbed saying,
I wish I'd had the courage to
live a life true to myself.
What they're saying is,
I wish I had the courage
to pick up the phone.
>> Individuals,
they grow two ways.
They grow through pain, or
they grow through insight.
Individuals either
get sick and tired,
because their experience
is being determined
by the environment
in which we are
in, the conversations,
by the social milieu,
by whatever's going
on in society.
It's an imprint.
And so in the
beginning, we learn how
to survive with the imprint.
And then we learn how to
adapt with the imprint.
And then at some
point in our life,
either through pain, suffering,
or through tremendous insight,
we learn to transform.
We learn to go
beyond the imprint.
And at some point,
we all have to be
taught that there's
something about us,
something gifted, something
intrinsic within you
that no one else has
the way you have it.
>> Most people, when they're
going through something
that's debilitating, they'll
ask a disempowering question.
They'll ask from a
victim state, why me?
Who's to blame?
What's wrong?
And the mind would
just go wrap it
with those kind of questions.
They don't take you anywhere.
They take you on
a downward spiral,
or you will end up
mining the database
of human consciousness.
You'll just pull in all the
frequency of all the suffering
that's happening on the planet.
>> We are
meaning-making machines.
Everything that we've
experienced in life
is exactly what we
needed to experience.
Everything we've been through
has been divinely orchestrated
in some way to bring us to
this present moment right now.
So if you are grateful
for this moment,
you must, by
definition, be grateful
for every single
moment that you've
been through that got
you to this moment,
and every single one
that unfolds beyond that.
And so the meaning is
something that we can
place on events and experience.
So if we feel like
something negative happened
to us in our lives, we don't
have to see it as negative.
If we feel like we're going
through something challenging,
we get to actually apply this,
this meaning-making principle
to what we're going
through right now.
>> Once I did that declaration,
it was like I sent the message
out to god, universe,
whatever you believe in.
And it got the wheels in motion.
And about a week later, I
was still in that house.
We hadn't lost it yet.
We were about to lose it.
And as I was walking up
the stairs of that house,
I got to the landing, and I
said, I really get it now.
I'm going through all this
stuff because my mission in life
is to help others bounce
back from difficult times.
I found a meaning that
is bigger than me,
that was something
like it was that light
at the end of the tunnel.
And it was really bright.
And I knew it was there.
And I needed to find my
way outside that tunnel.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I had a really
idyllic childhood.
Our house overlooked this
really awesome surf break.
Before school every morning,
I would go out surfing.
And would come home from
school, I would go for surf.
I loved surfing.
That was where I had fun.
And I'd go for
runs every morning
before school with my dad.
I've always been a
very physical person.
And for me, being active,
that's my therapy.
I was living in the
middle of Australia.
I had this really awesome
job at this diamond mine.
I found my job quite stressful.
And I was away from the coast
for the first time in my life,
so I started to run.
And so I'd do these really
big runs after work.
I was always great
at running at school.
I was always a good
cross-country runner.
It wasn't because I was fast.
I just don't stop.
It's a mental game.
Because when you're
on a really long run,
your body gives up
but your mind doesn't.
And your mind has got
to be strong enough
to say, no, you've just
got be able to kick on.
You've just got to
take the next step.
I've always really
liked challenges.
So I'd sign up to
do an ultramarathon.
I was excited.
It was another challenge for me.
It was something to get to learn
a little bit more about myself
and what type of person I was.
The start of the run, we
were in outback Australia.
And summer had just ended,
so it was really, really hot.
I heard this noise.
And I knew that
the next checkpoint
was over the other
side of the highway.
And so I thought the noise was
the sound of road trains coming
down the highway.
That kind of spurred me on.
And I got this real
rush of energy,
like, yep, almost a
checkpoint through.
You've got this, girl.
As I ran through this gorge,
I noticed these other runners
around me.
And they were all looking at
this big fire coming really
quickly through the gorge.
And I was panicking.
I didn't know if I was ever
going to make it out alive.
So I'd actually started to cry.
What happened next, it
happened so quickly.
The fire got sucked
through the gorge.
And I ended up being
burnt all over my body.
I remember thinking, this is it.
This is how I die.
I just thought about
how unfair it was,
and that I never see
anyone I loved ever again.
After the fire had passed, I was
still in a shock of disbelief,
like what just happened?
And I realized that
I was still standing,
and I was still alive.
The next couple
of hours, I didn't
know how long it was, time had
dilated, it had constricted.
But I ended up getting
helicoptered out of that gorge
about four hours
later after the fire.
There was a volunteering
ambulance paramedic, who
was there on site to help me.
And I recognized her.
She didn't recognize me.
She didn't know who I was.
I said, it's me.
It's Turia.
She didn't say anything back.
But I noticed a tear started
to roll slowly down her face.
So even though I was in this
state that, yeah, I'm sweet.
I'm going to go to the
hospital and get patched up.
I'll be back at work on Monday.
I had this sense that maybe
something bad had happened.
And I got transferred
to the hospital.
I was put in an induced coma.
They performed
escharotomies on me.
An escharotomy is
when they slashed you
from the top of your
leg down to your ankle
to relieve the pressure.
Because after a burn,
you start to swell up.
When you're burnt that they
needed to debride your skin.
And debriding just means
they need to remove
all of the burnt skin.
I think it was almost
maybe two months
later until I really
realized what had happened.
But I didn't get a
real insight into it.
Because one morning this
guy came into my room,
and I didn't know who he was.
And he said, oh,
good morning, Turia.
My name's Frank.
I'm your physiotherapist.
I'm here to help you
learn how to stand again.
And he managed to get
me in bed and pull me
in a sitting position.
And it was complete agony.
It was the most pain I've ever
felt in my whole entire life.
And he pulled me
up onto my feet.
And I remember
sobbing, just sobbing
and crying all over his
neck, into his gold chain.
And I think that that was
really the moment when
I realized how big
this challenge was
that I was facing.
Because I couldn't even
stand up by myself.
So the thought of being able to
walk again, run again, compete
again, go back to work, have
a family with my partner,
those things just seemed
so far away and so,
so impossible for
me to be able to do.
>> The dark side of the soul is
a moment in which you lose all
sense of connection with the
presence of the higher order
of being.
What you formerly believed,
it's gone out the window.
Your old identity has
begun to evaporate.
The new identity
hasn't emerged yet.
So you're in that
proverbial no man's land.
And that can last for
a short period of time,
or it can last for a
long period of time.
The dark night of
the soul, understand,
you don't have a dark
night of the soul
because someone died,
or you lost a job,
or you got a divorce.
That's regular sadness.
That's the sadness
of loss, and sadness
of somebody dying, the sadness
of a structure in your life.
Dark night of soul is
something different.
You could have nothing
wrong in your life,
and then suddenly,
there's a bereftness.
That generally means
that either through grace
or through spiritual practice,
your new identity is emerging.
But it hasn't emerged yet.
And you're not who
you used to be.
So you don't know who you are.
You don't even know
what you believe.
>> And so I realized really
early on in that day that I
couldn't think--
I couldn't spend all this
time and energy worrying
about what my future was going
to look like, because that
was just too far away.
It seemed insurmountable.
The prognosis from
the medical team,
it wasn't super optimistic.
They didn't know who I was.
They didn't know about my past.
They just had to prepare me as
best they could for my future.
So they said, you know, you
might not be able to run again.
You might not be
as active and be
able to do all
those crazy things
you like doing, like surfing
and rock-climbing and running.
But the reality is that
you'll probably drive again.
You'll probably get a job.
You'll probably go back to work,
and you might even get married.
And for me, I just
thought that was just--
I was so infuriated,
because I just thought,
you don't know who I am.
You don't know what
I'm capable of.
And I think--
I found that so infuriating.
It was that because
I'd had an accident--
I'd always been a
really high achiever.
I'd always done
really awesome things.
But because I'd had an accident,
suddenly the bar for me
was just placed right down here.
And I didn't like that.
>> And in the dark night, if
you can ask a question such
as, what quality do I need
to give birth to have peace
of mind if this were
to last forever?
You start to work with
something like that.
And why is it important?
Generally, when an individual
is in a dark night,
they go through
wishful thinking.
I wish I wasn't here.
I wish I wasn't who I was.
I wish I'd done
something differently.
I wish I'd made
different decisions.
It's a kind of a
wishful thinking.
None of those things
can ever happen
because you are who you
are, you are where you are,
and this is what's happening.
So to the degree that
you can pull yourself out
of wishful thinking and ask
a different kind of question,
when the dark night
is over, you've
found that you are a little bit
higher in your transformation
because you didn't waste the
time asking futile questions,
you see.
It's not something I would wish
upon anyone, the dark night.
However, every mystic,
in hindsight, loves it.
Because that was
the moment, that you
were in that crucial
bowl of darkness,
that crucible of transformation.
And what you gain from it
is that you could actually
see the light in the darkness.
The darkness shines
like the light.
And ultimately, when
you come out of it,
you're really different.
You're more of yourself.
The mystic chord of
memory has been struck.
And you're remembering
who you are.
It has nothing to do with
a change of circumstance.
It's an expanded awareness
of the ineffable presence
that we all are.
>> And in a way, I was able
to use that as motivation.
But I remember when I got told
that, I thought, you know what?
I'm going to show you.
I'm going to do an
Ironman one day.
I've always had really
amazing people around me.
And I remember telling Michael,
my partner, and my mom,
well, I was like, I'm
going to do an Ironman.
They didn't say to
me, that's silly.
You've got to listen to
what the doctor said,
and that's unrealistic for you.
They just said,
oh, awesome idea.
Let's get you out.
Let's go get you training.
Let's go get you working
for this Ironman.
>> So when we do pick up the
phone and we answer that CTA,
that Call To Action
or Call To Adventure,
Joseph Campbell would say,
we crossed the threshold.
And we've officially
made the separation.
And we moved from the first
part into the second part,
which is now the initiation.
And this is where we're
going through the fire.
We start to meet allies.
We start to connect
with other people
who share our values,
the people who
stand for the same kind
of things we stand for,
the people who believe in
us and that we believe in.
The people that
are inspiring us.
The people that we want
along this journey,
that we want on
his ride with us.
And at the same time, we
start to fight our dragons.
And dragons can
be family members
that don't believe in us.
They can be friends that
we've had for a long time
that we think we need to
stay friends with just
because that's been so long.
It can be our own
personal beliefs
that we've had about ourselves
for a long time, to include,
I am not enough,
here I go again,
who am I to be doing this.
All of the self-doubt that
creeps in our minds, those
are the dragons.
So it's external
and internal dragons
that we fight going
through the fire.
We all have to experience that.
>> My partner Michael, he would
go out and buy me all of these
sports clothes.
These really inspiring slogans,
it was a little bit corny.
But things like "never give up."
So I'd be in this
little hospital
mask with this full
body compression suit
with these inspiring
slogans on the ceilings.
It sounds really corny.
But at the time,
I appreciated it
having these people
who so believed in me,
who so wanted me to get better.
It was so beautiful of them
to show up for me every day
consistently.
And be there, even if
I was in a bad mood,
even if I didn't
feel strong that day,
even if I felt really
overwhelmed by what
I was doing.
They were there with
me every single day.
>> Once you start
walking down this path,
people will talk about you.
And you're afraid.
I'm afraid I'm going to fail.
I'm afraid it's
not going to work.
People are going to
laugh at me if I fail.
Well, if you do fail, which is
the learning, people will talk.
If you succeed, they're
going to talk about you.
They're going to talk
about you either way
because mediocrity
attacks excellence.
Knowing that you're going to
be talked about either way,
you don't live your life
with what other people are
thinking as your consideration.
That's where much
anxiety comes from.
People are taking too much
into consideration what
others are thinking about them.
And interestingly enough,
others are more concerned
about what you're
thinking about them.
So everybody is living
in this false narrative
that people are thinking about
what they're thinking about.
And they're not.
And so one of the first
ways that you grow
is that you let the "they" go.
And you become aware that
there's something within you,
the great "I am," the singular
manifestation of a cosmic good
that's within you.
That becomes what you listen to.
And after a while, with
practice, meditation,
like visioning, et cetera, that
becomes the predominant voice
you hear.
You're living your
passion of the gift that
wants to come forward.
>> When times are tough--
you read stories of people who
went through the Holocaust,
or survivors from these
really horrific incidents.
And you think to yourself,
how did they do that?
They just did because humans
are-- we're inherently,
we're intrinsically resilient.
But we never get tested.
Think about how
safe our lives are.
We get up, we go to
work, we have a shower,
we have food when we come home.
We don't really get any of
these challenges in our lives.
And so when something
really challenging
does happen to us,
or maybe something
that's not really that
challenging at all,
we fall apart because
we've had no practice.
We've never had to flex
our resilience muscle.
Having gone through all
of my life beforehand,
being a woman in a
male-dominated industry,
going to classes
at university where
you get told by your male
peers that you don't belong
in that class because you're
a woman, all of that stuff
made me more resilient.
And then my fire, my
fire experience, I guess,
just cemented that for me.
So what I did is I
would literally just
take each day as it came.
And every night before I went to
sleep, I'd think of the things
that I'd done really
well that day.
And I'd think of
the qualities that I
had that made me the perfect
prototype for this challenge.
>> I think it's really
important for everyone,
when they're going
through a difficult time,
to create their own declaration
and set their intention.
I don't know why
this is happening.
But one thing I know for
sure is something big,
something huge,
something way bigger
than me is going to
come out of this.
Because I'm not going through
all this stuff for nothing.
It's when you get stuck
in that negative space
that you don't see
the opportunities.
You're in this dark fog.
You're in that tunnel.
There could be a million
doors of opportunities
all around you.
You will never see them
because you're stuck.
When you are stuck,
it's like you
are staring at a closed door.
Not only is it closed,
but it's locked.
And what I mean by that is,
anytime you're complaining,
anytime you are feeling
sorry for yourself,
anytime you're saying,
why is this happening?
I can't believe
this is happening.
This isn't fair.
And all that resentment and
anger around your situation,
it's hard to move past that and
actually bounce back quickly.
>> What happens is, everything
is this energy based on thought
forms.
So you're afraid, you're
afraid, you're afraid.
You'd keep taking the steps.
And what happens is, fear gets
transmuted into excitement.
It's another form of energy.
It's a higher form of energy.
And when you keep
walking, excitement
gets transmuted into enthusiasm.
So you've gone from
fear to enthusiasm
by walking in the direction
of your dreams, you see.
So you don't let
it stagnate you.
Nor do you try to get rid of it.
You just acknowledged it.
Oh, there's fear here.
Of course there's fear.
If you're doing
something you've never
done before, you're
stepping into the unknown,
then the egoic
structure, which does not
know the difference
between self-actualization,
or enlightenment, or
awakeness, transformation,
doesn't know the difference
between that and annihilation,
it projects fear
onto everything.
So you walk.
Fear becomes excited.
Oh, I'm excited.
And then I'm enthused.
You never know if you don't go.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I've done stuff that I might
not never have put my hand up
for before my accident.
When I was running on the
Ironman course in Hawaii,
in Kona, just battling with
my internal demons, I'd go,
this is hard but it's
not as hard as what
you've been through before.
I guess my accident's given me
this really awesome reference
point for what is actually
a challenge in our world.
As now everywhere speaking in
front of thousands of people,
I'm like, yeah, it's hard.
I get scared.
I get anxious, for sure.
But it's not what I've
been through hard.
>> And as soon as we're done
going through this fire,
that's not the end.
It's not like we've
gone into the abyss,
we've discovered our
gifts, and end of story.
No.
Now is the return.
And this is the beautiful
part about the hero's journey
because we've gone
separation, initiation.
Now it's time for the return.
It's actually time to
take the gifts that you've
found about yourself,
about what your purpose is,
about what you're
here to do, and it's
time to bring them to the world.
So the return is
the exciting part
because we actually
get to take those gifts
and now share them
with the world.
[UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Connection is within me.
It is me.
It's not like learning
rocket science.
It's not something I have
to gain from outside.
It is who I am.
We're talking about
going back to self.
And so meditation
is extraordinary.
Where we're going
is in the self.
And so the question, of
course, then becomes, well,
why can't I be like that now?
Why do I have to do anything?
Why meditate?
Why pray?
Why serve?
If it's me, why am I not able
to just live like that all
the time?
Because of all of that,
which is not self.
And this is where meditation is
such an extraordinary practice.
It helps us to let
go of the not self.
It's not that
meditation brings god,
or that meditation brings
peace and enlightenment.
Meditation removes that
which is keeping us
from seeing and living
in the divinity,
the light, the joy, the
peace that is who we are.
Whatever practice helps you
let go of the attachment--
I think for me personally,
I think when I'm meditating,
I think of a piece of Velcro.
And so the top layer is this
superficial level existence.
The role that I play, the
relationships that I have,
the physical body that
I have, all of that.
My history.
And the bottom part is the
truth of who I am, soul spirit.
And most of us live with the
two of them stuck together
all the time.
We have wrapped up our
awareness of soul self
with how much money you
make, who you're married to,
whose parent you are,
whose child you are,
how much you weigh.
And meditation is this.
It drops, and it
drops, and it drops.
And suddenly, here I am sitting
in an awareness of soul spirit
that is dropped into that
ocean of the south that's
no longer stuck to the role,
the identity, the title,
the external object.
>> As a society, we're
constantly conditioned to chase
the next thing.
What it comes down
to, fundamentally,
is for the individual to
spend time with themselves.
And the beautiful
thing about this
is, it removes any
of the conditioning.
It removes any of the
board of directors
that maybe have been shut down.
It allows everyone to come to
the party and play the game.
Because when you're by yourself,
there's no one else telling you
what the answers need to be.
This is the beautiful
thing about life.
Not only are we destined
for something great.
Not only are we here to
do something incredible
with our lives, but we're
also given a blueprint
on how to do it.
That's the beautiful part.
So when you get quiet
enough, and you ask yourself,
what are you passionate about?
And really ask yourself,
and just sit with it.
This is it right
now in this moment.
And what kinds of
things are you good at?
And really sit with it.
And that's what this is
right now in this moment.
That's not anyone else.
That's not your
parents, that's not
society, that's not
anyone else telling you
what you need to do, or what
you need to be passionate about.
So you get to take
that as an individual
and follow that
as your blueprint.
And when I say,
let's play pretend,
even if this sounds
crazy to you,
so out there,
just try it on for a minute.
That the things that
you're passionate about,
the things that you're
good at, and the connection
you feel to the world,
the thing that you
want to change in
some way, or fix,
or have an impact with, pretend
like that isn't a coincidence
and that's an actual
blueprint for you to follow.
So it gives life meaning.
It gives life purpose.
It gives us a North Star that
we continue to move towards.
>> It's different
from visualization.
Visualization is
a good practice.
It's an entry level practice
of seeing what you want,
feeling it, declaring
it, articulating,
it coming into a resonance
with it until it manifests.
But oftentimes, people
are visualizing things
that society told them they
should want to be happy.
Then when they get
it, they're not happy.
So visioning is different.
You're able to ask,
what is the vision?
And you sit until you're
able to feel it, or hear
it, or articulate it.
You ask, what is it
that I need to become
to manifest this vision
that's growing edge?
What do I need to
grow in my life?
What do I already have that can
be in service to the vision?
What do I need to let go
of, that no longer serves
my moving forward?
Tap into a sense of willingness.
This is all a part
of the life visioning
process, which is saying, in
substance, you take an avocado
seed.
An avocado seed can't become
a daffodil, a magnolia.
What's intrinsic to the avocado
seed is an avocado tree.
So there is something within
us that's intrinsic within us.
And we ask until we begin
to see what is my gift?
What is my passion?
What is it?
And we walk in that direction.
[UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Whatever choice you make
and whatever meaning you add
to whatever is going on will
determine your outcome and how
quickly you bounce back.
That meaning is
really important.
And we can choose that
at any given time.
We can choose a
different meaning.
And the best way to find out
whether it's serving you or not
is, how do you feel?
Does it make you feel
expanded or contracted?
And so for me, being
able to help around this,
because people are suffering
everywhere, I, all of a sudden,
was grateful in that
moment, for a little.
I obviously wish I could
come to this but big aha
without going through
all this stuff
and be able to help people.
But you know what?
People wouldn't listen to me.
If I hadn't experienced
pain and suffering,
they would have said,
you don't understand.
So I had to go through
it to be able to do that.
I chose that.
I could have made a
million other choices.
And anyone can choose
at any given moment
what they want it to mean.
In the end, I really
believe that you
can get through anything.
>> Because I think at
the end of the day,
even though we can be
single-minded and we can be
focused on our goals and
what we're trying to achieve,
when you step back from
that and you think about
what's important in our lives,
none of that stuff matters.
It's our relationships.
Going through this experience
that I've been through,
it doesn't make me immune
to further tragedy.
Life's unknown, life's random,
and life's not guaranteed.
And I guess that reinforced
my belief that we
have to make the most of it.
Because we don't really
know how much of it we get.
[TRAIN CLATTERS]
>> It's really good that you
don't know what you don't know.
Because if you knew what
you have to go through,
all the challenges that
we all have to go through,
it's good to sometimes
not knowing that.
Well, I think everyone should
focus on what they love.
And I think if you
do what you love,
because of doing
all that, you are
able to share your passions and
your purpose with other people.
And that means that
they are inspired,
and then they will be inspired.
So it's a lovely ripple effect.
But one of my values is sharing.
Since the day I can
remember, I always
loved if I'm reading a great
book, I always share it.
And I absolutely
love sharing it.
So that became
part of my purpose.
And I always encourage
people to share,
whatever field they're in.
Because there is always
someone behind you,
in terms of starting
out in life,
that could do with some help.
And there is always someone
who is less fortunate than you.
So I came across this amazing
woman, who is an African lady.
But she is a dream that I need.
So Terari-- she grew up
in a culture in Zimbabwe
where she was married away
as an 11-year-old girl.
And she had I think five
kids before 18, and abused.
And she didn't get
to go to school,
she couldn't write and read.
So an American woman
came to her village
and said, what are your dreams?
And she was like, how
can I possibly dream when
for me, it's about survival?
And then she said, well, if
I can do anything in my life,
I would love first to
get an education here,
and then university.
And my biggest dreams would
be to have a PhD in America.
And she actually went
home to her mother.
And her mother said,
if you're going
to do all of that I think
you should add one more
dream for the betterment
of other people.
So she did add--
her last dream was to come back
to the community, if she could
achieve all that, come
back to the community
and then help other girls
not going through what
she had to go through.
She got her PhD.
Oprah heard about her.
She got invited to the show.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- I am going to help
you rebuild your school.
I'm donating a million
and a half dollars.
[APPLAUSE]
- Thank you so much.
[END PLAYBACK]
>> What I love about that
story is that she had nothing.
And she had all the
hurdles and challenges
that I think we all
feel that we have.
But at least, most of us
have a phone, most of us
have food, internet,
and somewhere to stay.
And she didn't have all that.
That's why I like
sharing her story
because I think it's
so powerful for people
to hear that she
achieved all that,
and what she had to go
through, and what she
is changing in her community.
Having seen that myself
was just unbelievable.
I wanted to do something
for someone else.
I thought, this is perfect.
Because Terari-- she has
12 schools in Zimbabwe now.
So we have stationery.
So we'd just given stationery
to all the schools.
>> At one point, you have to
ask, how can I be of service?
Service is the great
opener of the heart.
And you discover that service
is also a path to awakening.
And what happens
after you're awake?
You serve more.
And so it's a continual
being of service,
awakening, being of
service, and awakening.
That particular
question would transform
the vibrational frequency of
many businesses, corporations,
organizations.
If we maintain our
service ethic rather than
trying to appease our
acquisitive appetite--
I want more of this.
I want more money.
I want more this.
How can I serve more?
Then into that frequency, then
the other things are given.
When you just ask, how
can I be of service?
The energy that flows through
you is of service to everyone.
And you get the first bite.
[LAUGHTER]
It feeds you first.
This is why all of the
different research and test,
after test, after test
have shown that people who
are of service are more happy.
They have long term joy.
[UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There's a lot of baggage
around purpose these days.
And so many people
come to us bereft.
People with what look like from
the outside wonderful lives.
People who are doing
meaningful work,
engaged in meaningful
relationships.
And they'll come
and they'll say,
but I don't know my purpose.
And I feel like we're
getting really indoctrinated,
and to the point
where it's starting
to feel unhealthily so,
into this concept of you
have one purpose.
And it's going to
be something grand,
and romantic, and never been
done before, and extraordinary.
And until and
unless you find it,
it doesn't matter
what else you do.
It's not enough because
it's not your purpose.
And that feels to me
like a tragic myth.
We don't come into this
world branded on the behind
with CEO of this company,
president of that country,
world famous this, head of that.
We come into this world branded
with divine, branded with true,
love, wholeness,
completeness, consciousness.
And so this concept
of find your purpose
has driven us into
these holes of,
well, it has to be one thing.
And of course, it
has to be something
that I will make a living at.
Some people may be very
blessed, very lucky.
Great.
When they overlap,
nothing like it.
But if they don't, don't worry.
Maybe your purpose is
to make beautiful music,
to make beautiful art,
to write beautiful poems.
But maybe at this moment,
people aren't buying them.
OK.
But that doesn't mean
it's not your purpose.
But what it may mean
is, you better get
a job as a waiter, or a
waitress, or a gas station
attendant, or whatever
it is so that you've
got food on the table.
And don't feel badly.
Don't feel like somehow
that's beneath your purpose.
Because if you've
got a job that's
putting food on the
table and giving you
the free time that you
need to create the music,
to create the art
that is your purpose,
so that you can give it away,
nothing wrong with that.
>> When we can find our
calling, if it's our career,
that's a beautiful thing.
If it's not, then our career
can support the calling.
Without an answering of the
calling, our soul is bereft.
It's sad, it's morose.
And so I think our path
is to find our calling,
and to answer it.
Sometimes the job you have
or the career you have
is your calling.
Many times it's not.
Many times, your career, your
job supports your calling.
And so then you
have a nice paradox
of the job or the career
supporting the calling.
And there's nothing
wrong with that either.
>> But we're indoctrinating
people to believe, oh,
being that waitress is
beneath you because, see,
your purpose is to be the
artist or the musician.
And if it's really your
purpose, it'll pay.
>> I can remember a gentleman
that was very pressured
into becoming a doctor.
His father was a doctor, his
grandfather was a doctor.
And so it was just assumed
he would go into medicine.
And he did until he
suffered from cancer.
And in the process of
healing the cancer,
he fell back in love with
his passion, which was music.
He was a violinist.
And when he shifted
over to his love
he not only healed his
cancer but he found
his calling, which was music.
He was able to transcend
the parental fantasy.
And of course, it didn't
come without struggle
of the soul, pain of the body.
But he ultimately did.
>> This is really important
because the new age media
paints purpose, Dharma, as
though somehow you're going
to find yourself on the cover of
a magazine when you figure out
what your purpose is and you
actually live it and fulfill
it.
Because you're going to
be the most famous that,
the best this, the richest
that, the newest this.
Maybe sometimes.
Maybe some people, maybe
that's some people's Dharma.
But it's not, not most people's.
And to really stay
rooted in what's
in alignment with
the core of who I am,
and to move forward with that.
And when we know who we are
we will know what to do.
>> Finding your purpose
comes down to two things.
The first one is, dropping
from the head into the heart.
And the best way to do
that is through meditation
and mindfulness.
And actually, taking the time
to be quiet and to listen.
>> You establish your
intention to wake up,
to expand your awareness
to who and what you are.
And so the moment
of meditation is
when you have that moment
of connectedness to life,
and you learn how to pay
undistractable attention to it.
And what happens is,
all manner of debris,
thought forms, whatever it may
be flowing through your mind--
but you're learning to have
dominion over your attention
so that as the
insight is occurring,
you're able to be
aware of it and have
a level of
stabilization around it.
You meditate on your existence.
Why am I here?
Who am I?
The Ws.
Why am I?
Where am I?
When am I?
Until you start to be
taught, not just a belief,
but you start to
have an insight.
So that's existential.
And spiritual meditation
is when you're
meditating simply to wake up.
You're establishing your
intention to wake up,
to have a greater
realization of your oneness
with life, whether you call
life god, or the presence,
of love, or intelligence.
But whatever the technique
is, it's fundamental.
It's fundamental.
And then affirmative prayer
is not begging or beseeching.
You're actually praying to
have a realization of what
you're praying for.
You already have it, you see.
We enter into a
state of gratitude.
And then we begin to recognize
the presence that's everywhere.
We begin to feel our
unity with this presence.
And then we proclaim
or declare what
is so, whether it's about
our abundance or our health.
We give thanks that
it's already done.
And we release it into the law.
It becomes our new law of being.
>> The quality of our life
depends upon the quality
of the questions
we ask ourselves.
And so I think that when someone
asks, what is my purpose?
What kinds of things
am I passionate about?
am I great at?
What do I feel a
connection to in the world?
If asking what
are you passionate
about doesn't resonate
with you, there
are so many deeper
questions we can ask.
What kinds of
things do you enjoy?
What kinds of things
are you curious about?
are you interested in?
What kinds of things
did you like as a child,
do you remember really
enjoying as a child,
that you maybe haven't
even thought about,
like playing the guitar,
the piano, or singing?
What kinds of things
bring you joy?
makes you come alive?
What kinds of things, when
you think about doing,
make you smile?
Maybe it's down the path
of entrepreneurship.
But maybe just by getting
clear on what your purpose is,
you find an organization,
a company, a nonprofit,
some kind of entity that
aligns with those same values.
And there's really no better
answer than intuitively
and energetically we feel that.
[WAVES LAPPING]
>> One morning, an old man
is walking on the beach.
And he looks down and sees
in the distance what looks
like a dancing silhouette.
As he gets closer, he realizes
it's not a dancing silhouette.
It's actually a little boy.
And what the little
boy is doing is
he's picking starfish
up from the beach
and he's throwing them into
the ocean one at a time.
Picking up a starfish and
throwing it in the ocean.
And the old man, he's
lived a rough life.
He sees things a certain
way, a little bit cynical.
He was like, boy,
what are you doing?
And the boy says, you
can't see what's happening?
He said, the sun's out
in the middle of the sky,
the tide's gone out.
There's starfish
lining the beach.
And if I don't pick them up
and throw them in the ocean,
they're going to die.
They're going to
burn up and die.
And the old man looks
and says, boy, there's
miles of beach this way,
miles of beach that way.
There's thousands if not tens
of thousands of starfish.
You can't possibly
make a difference.
And little boy picks up
a starfish, throws it in.
It made a difference
to that one.
And I think the story is a
powerful illustration of, yes,
there are miles
of beach this way
and miles of beach that way.
There are countless challenges,
environmental, social,
financial, political.
So many challenges
our world is facing.
And yet, most people will
be the old man and say,
you can't possibly
make a difference.
Why even try?
And yet, there are some of us,
and there are more and more.
There's this community is
growing of people who are just
going to say, you know what?
Let me pick up what my starfish
is to pick up and throw in.
>> In brain research, it's shown
that compassion shifts brain
function more than
anything else.
And what's been happening
over the last 300 years,
in just a few decades
we reversed position
globally on slavery, on
democracy, on women's rights,
on child labor.
We've become more, and more, and
more compassionate as a species
for the last few hundred years.
And it's changing our brains.
>> There's this fascinating
study that was done,
and a term that was coined,
called the overview effect.
Which is, when astronauts go to
outer space and they come back,
their families and their friends
start to go, something changed.
Fundamentally, there's something
different about this human
being.
And as they've done these
longitudinal studies
on astronauts and figuring
out what exactly shifted,
they came up with this term
called the overview effect.
What it boils down to is this.
When you're in space
looking down on the Earth,
you see the Earth as a
living, breathing organism.
And we, as humans, as
part of this organism,
are like the cells in our body.
We are a small part of
a much bigger puzzle.
And yet, just like we
need every single cell
to come together to make tissue,
and tissue to make organs,
and organs to make up the
body, every single human being,
when they're alive
and on purpose,
gets to be the cell that is
functioning at its highest
capacity in order to
make this organism, which
is planet Earth.
They see it as a
living, breathing being.
We're just a part of it.
So I think it's a great
opportunity for us
to feel insignificant
and extremely significant
at the exact same time.
Whether we pick up that starfish
and put it in the ocean,
whether we step
into our purpose,
whether we do what
we're here to do,
every single one of
those cells needs
to be functioning
the best possible way
that it can be in order
for the whole to operate
the way that needs to.
>> We have all these
problems in the world.
We have global warming.
We have weaponized
artificial intelligence
that's threatening to
produce all kinds of problems
among societies and
between nations.
We have human trafficking,
we have civil wars,
we have all these things.
We look at the world and say,
those things are terrible.
How do we solve them?
But research shows that
in these blissful states,
in these ecstatic states, they
don't just make us feel better
and they don't just
extend to meditation.
They extend to the
world around us.
A 10-year study of high
performing executives
found that in flow states,
like meditation producers,
our productivity
increases by 500%.
A study by the defense
research agency DARPA
found that in those
elevated states
our problem solving
ability increases by 490%.
Our creativity explodes.
So now, as we're having
many, many people
entering these
blissful states, we
have increased leverage
over those global problems.
How many more people?
Well, around 1980, about 1%
of the population in most
countries were meditators.
And this 1% is very consistent
throughout the world
and throughout history.
But in 2005, about 4% of
Americans were meditating.
The latest research shows
it's about 15% of people.
So having this huge
growth curve of people
entering these states at which
their productivity and problem
solving ability quintuples.
Now we have all these brains.
And they're not only
individual brains,
they're coherent
with each other.
If I'm in coherence, in mental
coherence and heart coherence,
I'm not in coherence
with myself,
I'm in coherence with everyone
on the planet who's coherent.
So we have all of these
brains in these states.
And the number of people doing
this increasing exponentially,
bringing all that
problem solving ability
to bear on these
wicked problems.
>> To me, the earth is in labor
trying to bring forth a whole
new kind of existence, where
we are living from our hearts,
where each person is able to
manifest into the world all
of their gifts and all
of that perfection,
that blueprint that
is within their heart.
And I know that's
where we're going.
I know that's where
we're going to get.
We are going to get there.
And I think that's the future
>> I am an absolute
optimist for the future.
I think we'll solve
all of these problems.
And we'll rise to unprecedented
heights of flourishing.
Because the process is
geometric in its progression.
We get more, and more,
and more into the state.
We produce more and
more of these chemicals.
We change our brains
more and more.
We accelerate the
process of happiness.
And we then start to change
the world in ways that
make us flourish even more.
Over the next 10,
20, 50 years, we'll
be solving those problems with
the increased capacity we have.
So as you elevate
yourself above zero
to that space of being in
bliss brain, being happy,
feeling good, but also
changing your brain
and then having all of those
human capacities come online,
they are not just there
for you in meditation.
They are there for the world
and the world outside of you.
>> If we as individuals can
come into deep harmony within
ourselves, the power and the
magnificence that we can create
as a global culture
is phenomenal.
Together as a humanity,
we can transform.
And everything that
we do as a humanity
will transform as
a result of it.
>> That's the world
we're heading to.
A world of peace,
a world of love,
a world where
compassion is the norm.
I dream of a day when my
grandchildren come to me
and say, granddaddy, I have a
school project I'm working on.
It's on this thing called PTSD.
I know, granddaddy,
you used to be
involved in research into this.
You used to work with
veterans and refugees.
But I don't know anyone
with this weird disease.
What is it like?
Now your grandparents talk
about diphtheria and polio.
And you don't even know what
those diseases even are.
I want a world where
our children don't
know what depression,
or anxiety, or PTSD is.
It's unknown there.
And we really have
it in our grasp.
Science shows we
have it in our graph
to produce that kind of a world.
We have those tools right now.
And we're moving inextricably
toward deploying them
to solving all these
wicked human problems.
So the world is changing.
We're in the middle of it.
We are the people.
Now is the time.
It is such an exciting
moment to be alive
because that's where we're
headed in the aggregate,
in the global, in the long term.